Esoteric Foundation Public License 1.0.10

Copyright (C) 2024 Esoteric Foundation
<https://www.github.com/EsotericFoundation>

=======================================================================

Summary

This Public License is a modified version of the CC BY-NC-SA 4.0
license, which can be found here:
https://www.creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/deed.en

The main difference between this Public License and the CC BY-NC-SA 4.0
license is the requirement to Share all files involved in the creation
of Adapted Material, preferably in the form of a Git repository, and
ideally in the form of a GitHub repository, and if applicable, as a
fork of the Licensed Material, in other words, a requirement for
Adapted Material to be 'open source'.

All differences between this Public License and the CC BY-NC-SA 4.0
license can be seen here:
https://www.github.com/EsotericFoundation/license/compare/0.0.1...main

Note that the points under "Esoteric Foundation Public License Summary"
is only a summary of the Public License and do not form part of the
Public License itself.

Please read and understand the entire Public License.

Esoteric Foundation Public License Summary

You may:

  a. Use and Share the Licensed Material, provided that You:

       1. give appropriate Attribution, as defined in the Public
          License below; and

       2. use or Share the Licensed Material for NonCommercial purposes
          only.

  b. Produce, use and Share Adapted Material, provided that:

       1. You give appropriate Attribution, as defined in the Public
          License below;

       2. If You produce Adapted Material, You:

            a. Share a link to all files involved in the creation of
               the Adapted Material, preferably in the form of a Git
               repository, and ideally in the form of a GitHub
               repository, and if applicable, as a fork of the Licensed
               Material. In other words, the Adapted Material must be
               'open source';

            b. use this Public License (this version or later) as the
               Adapter's License (Your license);

            c. refer to the Adapted Material with a name that is
               distinct from the name of the Licensed Material, but may
               include recognizable variations of, the name of the
               Licensed Material (which is encouraged); and

       3. You produce, use or Share the Adapted Material for
          NonCommercial purposes only.

You may not:

  a. Use or Share the Licensed Material without giving appropriate
     Attribution, as defined in the Public License below.

  b. Use or Share the Licensed Material for any kind of commercial
     purposes.

  c. Produce, use or Share Adapted Material without giving appropriate
     Attribution, as defined in the Public License below.

  d. Produce Adapted Material and not Share files involved in the
     creation of the Adapted Material. In other words, make the Adapted
     Material 'closed source'.

  e. Produce Adapted Material where the Adapter's License (Your
     license) is not this Public License.

  f. Produce Adapted Material where the Adapter's License (Your
     license) is an earlier version of this Public License.

  g. Produce Adapted Material with the exact same name as the Licensed
     Material.

  h. Produce, use or Share Adapted Material for any kind of commercial
     purposes.

=======================================================================

The Esoteric Foundation organisation ("Esoteric Foundation") is not a
law firm and does not provide legal services or legal advice.
Distribution of this Public License does not create a lawyer-client or
other relationship. The Esoteric Foundation makes its Public License
and related information available on an "as-is" basis. The Esoteric
Foundation gives no warranties regarding its Public License, any
Licensed Material, or any related information. The Esoteric Foundation
disclaims all liability for damages resulting from the use of its
Public License to the fullest extent possible.

Using the Esoteric Foundation Public License

The Esoteric Foundation Public License provides a standard set of terms
and conditions that creators and other rights holders may use to share
original works of authorship and other material subject to copyright
and certain other rights specified in the Public License below. The
following considerations are for informational purposes only, are not
exhaustive, and do not form part of our Public License.

     Considerations for licensors: Our Public License is intended for
     use by those authorized to give the public permission to use
     material in ways otherwise restricted by copyright and certain
     other rights. Our Public License is irrevocable. Licensors should
     read and understand the terms and conditions of the Public License
     before applying it. Licensors should also secure all rights
     necessary before applying our Public License so that the public
     can reuse the material as expected. Licensors should clearly mark
     any material not subject to the Public License. This includes
     material used under an Exception or Limitation to copyright.

     Considerations for the public: By using our Public License, a
     Licensor grants the public permission to use the Licensed Material
     under specified terms and conditions. If the Licensor's permission
     is not necessary for any reason--for example, because of any
     applicable Exception or Limitation to copyright--then that use is
     not regulated by the Public License. Our Public License grants
     only permissions under copyright and certain other rights that a
     Licensor has authority to grant. Use of the Licensed Material may
     still be restricted for other reasons, including because others
     have copyright or other rights in the material. A Licensor may
     make special requests, such as asking that all changes be marked
     or described. Although not required by our Public License, you are
     encouraged to respect those requests where reasonable.

=======================================================================

Esoteric Foundation Public License

By exercising the Licensed Rights (defined below), You accept and agree
to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Esoteric Foundation
Public License ("Public License"). To the extent that the Public
License may be interpreted as a contract, You are granted the Licensed
Rights in consideration of Your acceptance of these terms and
conditions, and the Licensor grants You such rights in consideration of
benefits the Licensor receives from making the Licensed Material
available under these terms and conditions.


Section 1 -- Definitions.

  a. Adapted Material means material subject to Copyright and Similar
     Rights that is derived from or based upon the Licensed Material or
     in which the Licensed Material is translated, altered, arranged,
     transformed, or otherwise modified or interacted with in a manner
     requiring permission under the Copyright and Similar Rights held
     by the Licensor. For purposes of this Public License, where the
     Licensed Material is a musical work, performance, or sound
     recording, Adapted Material is always produced where the Licensed
     Material is synched in timed relation with a moving image.

  b. Adapter's License means the license You apply to Your Copyright
     and Similar Rights in Your contributions to Adapted Material in
     accordance with the terms and conditions of this Public License.

  c. Copyright and Similar Rights means copyright and/or similar rights
     closely related to copyright including, without limitation,
     performance, broadcast, sound recording, and Sui Generis Database
     Rights, without regard to how the rights are labeled or
     categorized. For purposes of this Public License, the rights
     specified in Section 2(b)(1)-(2) are not Copyright and Similar
     Rights.

  d. Effective Technological Measures means those measures that, in the
     absence of proper authority, may not be circumvented under laws
     fulfilling obligations under Article 11 of the WIPO Copyright
     Treaty adopted on December 20, 1996, and/or similar international
     agreements.

  e. Exceptions and Limitations means fair use, fair dealing, and/or
     any other exception or limitation to Copyright and Similar Rights
     that applies to Your use of the Licensed Material.

  f. Licensed Material means the artistic or literary work, database,
     or other material to which the Licensor applied this Public
     License.

  g. Licensed Rights means the rights granted to You subject to the
     terms and conditions of this Public License, which are limited to
     all Copyright and Similar Rights that apply to Your use of the
     Licensed Material and that the Licensor has authority to license.

  h. Licensor means the individual(s) or entity(ies) granting rights
     under this Public License.

  i. NonCommercial means not intended for and not directed towards
     commercial advantage or monetary compensation. For purposes of
     this Public License, the exchange of the Licensed Material for
     other material subject to Copyright and Similar Rights by digital
     file-sharing or similar means is NonCommercial provided there is
     no payment of monetary compensation in connection with the
     exchange.

  j. Share means to provide material to the public by any means or
     process that requires permission under the Licensed Rights, such
     as reproduction, public display, public performance, distribution,
     dissemination, communication, or importation, and to make material
     available to the public including in ways that members of the
     public may access the material from a place and at a time
     individually chosen by them.

  k. Sui Generis Database Rights means rights other than copyright
     resulting from Directive 96/9/EC of the European Parliament and of
     the Council of 11 March 1996 on the legal protection of databases,
     as amended and/or succeeded, as well as other essentially
     equivalent rights anywhere in the world.

  l. You means the individual or entity exercising the Licensed Rights
     under this Public License. Your has a corresponding meaning.


Section 2 -- Scope.

  a. License grant.

       1. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License,
          the Licensor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free,
          non-sublicensable, non-exclusive, irrevocable license to
          exercise the Licensed Rights in the Licensed Material to:

            a. reproduce and Share the Licensed Material, in whole or
               in part, for NonCommercial purposes only; and

            b. produce, reproduce, and Share Adapted Material for
               NonCommercial purposes only.

       2. Exceptions and Limitations. For the avoidance of doubt, where
          Exceptions and Limitations apply to Your use, this Public
          License does not apply, and You do not need to comply with
          its terms and conditions.

       3. Term. The term of this Public License is specified in Section
          6(a).

       4. Media and formats; technical modifications allowed. The
          Licensor authorizes You to exercise the Licensed Rights in
          all media and formats whether now known or hereafter created,
          and to make technical modifications necessary to do so. The
          Licensor waives and/or agrees not to assert any right or
          authority to forbid You from making technical modifications
          necessary to exercise the Licensed Rights, including
          technical modifications necessary to circumvent Effective
          Technological Measures. For purposes of this Public License,
          simply making modifications authorized by this Section 2(a)
          (4) never produces Adapted Material.

       5. Downstream recipients.

            a. Offer from the Licensor -- Licensed Material. Every
               recipient of the Licensed Material automatically
               receives an offer from the Licensor to exercise the
               Licensed Rights under the terms and conditions of this
               Public License.

            b. Additional offer from the Licensor -- Adapted Material.
               Every recipient of Adapted Material from You
               automatically receives an offer from the Licensor to
               exercise the Licensed Rights in the Adapted Material
               under the conditions of the Adapter's License You apply.

            c. No downstream restrictions. You may not offer or impose
               any additional or different terms or conditions on, or
               apply any Effective Technological Measures to, the
               Licensed Material if doing so restricts exercise of the
               Licensed Rights by any recipient of the Licensed
               Material.

       6. No endorsement. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or
          may be construed as permission to assert or imply that You
          are, or that Your use of the Licensed Material is, connected
          with, or sponsored, endorsed, or granted official status by,
          the Licensor or others designated to receive attribution as
          provided in Section 3(a)(1)(A)(i).

  b. Other rights.

       1. Moral rights, such as the right of integrity, are not
          licensed under this Public License, nor are publicity,
          privacy, and/or other similar personality rights; however, to
          the extent possible, the Licensor waives and/or agrees not to
          assert any such rights held by the Licensor to the limited
          extent necessary to allow You to exercise the Licensed
          Rights, but not otherwise.

       2. Patent and trademark rights are not licensed under this
          Public License.

       3. To the extent possible, the Licensor waives any right to
          collect royalties from You for the exercise of the Licensed
          Rights, whether directly or through a collecting society
          under any voluntary or waivable statutory or compulsory
          licensing scheme. In all other cases the Licensor expressly
          reserves any right to collect such royalties, including when
          the Licensed Material is used other than for NonCommercial
          purposes.


Section 3 -- License Conditions.

Your exercise of the Licensed Rights is expressly made subject to the
following conditions.

  a. Attribution.

       1. If You Share the Licensed Material (including in modified
          form), You must:

            a. retain the following if it is supplied by the Licensor
               with the Licensed Material:

                 i. identification of, and the URI(s) or hyperlink(s)
                    to, the creator(s) of the Licensed Material and any
                    others designated to receive attribution, in any
                    reasonable manner requested by the Licensor
                    (including by pseudonym if designated), to the
                    extent reasonably practicable;

                ii. a copyright notice;

               iii. a URI or hyperlink to the Licensed Material to the
                    extent reasonably practicable;

                iv. a notice that refers to this Public License;

                 v. a notice that refers to the disclaimer of
                    warranties;

            b. indicate if You modified the Licensed Material and
               retain an indication of any previous modifications; and

            c. indicate the Licensed Material is licensed under this
               Public License, and include the text of, or the URI or
               hyperlink to, this Public License.

       2. You may satisfy the conditions in Section 3(a)(1) in any
          reasonable manner based on the medium, means, and context in
          which You Share the Licensed Material. For example, it may be
          reasonable to satisfy the conditions by providing a URI or
          hyperlink to a resource that includes the required
          information.

       3. If requested by the Licensor, You must remove any of the
          information required by Section 3(a)(1)(A) to the extent
          reasonably practicable.

  b. ShareAlike.

     In addition to the conditions in Section 3(a), if You Share
     Adapted Material You produce, the following conditions also apply.

       1. You must include the URI or hyperlink to any files involved
          in the creation of the Adapted Material, preferably in the
          form of a Git repository, and ideally in the form of a GitHub
          repository, and if applicable, as a fork of the Licensed
          Material. In other words, the Adapted Material must be 'open
          source'. You may satisfy this condition in any reasonable
          manner based on the medium, means, and context in which You
          Share Adapted Material.

       2. The Adapter's License You apply must be the Esoteric
          Foundation Public License, this version or later.

       3. You must include the text of, or the URI or hyperlink to, the
          Adapter's License You apply. You may satisfy this condition
          in any reasonable manner based on the medium, means, and
          context in which You Share Adapted Material.

       4. You may not offer or impose any additional or different terms
          or conditions on, or apply any Effective Technological
          Measures to, Adapted Material that restrict exercise of the
          rights granted under the Adapter's License You apply.

       5. You may not use the exact same name as the Licensed Material
          for Your Adapted Material. You may not refer to the Adapted
          Material using the exact name of the Licensed Material. Using
          variations of the name of the Licensed Material is acceptable
          and even encouraged.


Section 4 -- Sui Generis Database Rights.

Where the Licensed Rights include Sui Generis Database Rights that
apply to Your use of the Licensed Material:

  a. for the avoidance of doubt, Section 2(a)(1) grants You the right
     to extract, reuse, reproduce, and Share all or a substantial
     portion of the contents of the database for NonCommercial purposes
     only;

  b. if You include all or a substantial portion of the database
     contents in a database in which You have Sui Generis Database
     Rights, then the database in which You have Sui Generis Database
     Rights (but not its individual contents) is Adapted Material,
     including for purposes of Section 3(b); and

  c. You must comply with the conditions in Section 3(a) if You Share
     all or a substantial portion of the contents of the database.

For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 4 supplements and does not
replace Your obligations under this Public License where the Licensed
Rights include other Copyright and Similar Rights.


Section 5 -- Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.

  a. UNLESS OTHERWISE SEPARATELY UNDERTAKEN BY THE LICENSOR, TO THE
     EXTENT POSSIBLE, THE LICENSOR OFFERS THE LICENSED MATERIAL AS-IS
     AND AS-AVAILABLE, AND MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF
     ANY KIND CONCERNING THE LICENSED MATERIAL, WHETHER EXPRESS,
     IMPLIED, STATUTORY, OR OTHER. THIS INCLUDES, WITHOUT LIMITATION,
     WARRANTIES OF TITLE, MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
     PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, ABSENCE OF LATENT OR OTHER DEFECTS,
     ACCURACY, OR THE PRESENCE OR ABSENCE OF ERRORS, WHETHER OR NOT
     KNOWN OR DISCOVERABLE. WHERE DISCLAIMERS OF WARRANTIES ARE NOT
     ALLOWED IN FULL OR IN PART, THIS DISCLAIMER MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

  b. TO THE EXTENT POSSIBLE, IN NO EVENT WILL THE LICENSOR BE LIABLE TO
     YOU ON ANY LEGAL THEORY (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION,
     NEGLIGENCE) OR OTHERWISE FOR ANY DIRECT, SPECIAL, INDIRECT,
     INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE, EXEMPLARY, OR OTHER LOSSES,
     COSTS, EXPENSES, OR DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS PUBLIC LICENSE OR
     USE OF THE LICENSED MATERIAL, EVEN IF THE LICENSOR HAS BEEN
     ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LOSSES, COSTS, EXPENSES, OR
     DAMAGES. WHERE A LIMITATION OF LIABILITY IS NOT ALLOWED IN FULL OR
     IN PART, THIS LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

  c. The disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability provided
     above shall be interpreted in a manner that, to the extent
     possible, most closely approximates an absolute disclaimer and
     waiver of all liability.


Section 6 -- Term and Termination.

  a. This Public License applies for the term of the Copyright and
     Similar Rights licensed here. However, if You fail to comply with
     this Public License, then Your rights under this Public License
     terminate automatically.

  b. Where Your right to use the Licensed Material has terminated under
     Section 6(a), it reinstates:

       1. automatically as of the date the violation is cured, provided
          it is cured within 30 days of Your discovery of the
          violation; or

       2. upon express reinstatement by the Licensor.

     For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 6(b) does not affect any
     right the Licensor may have to seek remedies for Your violations
     of this Public License.

  c. For the avoidance of doubt, the Licensor may also offer the
     Licensed Material under separate terms or conditions or stop
     distributing the Licensed Material at any time; however, doing so
     will not terminate this Public License.

  d. Sections 1, 5, 6, 7, and 8 survive termination of this Public
     License.


Section 7 -- Other Terms and Conditions.

  a. The Licensor shall not be bound by any additional or different
     terms or conditions communicated by You unless expressly agreed.

  b. Any arrangements, understandings, or agreements regarding the
     Licensed Material not stated herein are separate from and
     independent of the terms and conditions of this Public License.


Section 8 -- Interpretation.

  a. For the avoidance of doubt, this Public License does not, and
     shall not be interpreted to, reduce, limit, restrict, or impose
     conditions on any use of the Licensed Material that could lawfully
     be made without permission under this Public License.

  b. To the extent possible, if any provision of this Public License is
     deemed unenforceable, it shall be automatically reformed to the
     minimum extent necessary to make it enforceable. If the provision
     cannot be reformed, it shall be severed from this Public License
     without affecting the enforceability of the remaining terms and
     conditions.

  c. No term or condition of this Public License will be waived and no
     failure to comply consented to unless expressly agreed to by the
     Licensor.

  d. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may be interpreted
     as a limitation upon, or waiver of, any privileges and immunities
     that apply to the Licensor or You, including from the legal
     processes of any jurisdiction or authority.

=======================================================================

How to Apply This Public License to Your Work

     Include a copy of the Public License in Your Work. If applicable,
     in a file, typically called LICENSE.

     Attach the following notice to the Licensed Material. If
     applicable, in a file, typically called README or README.md, with
     the fields enclosed by square brackets "[]" replaced with your own
     identifying information (don't include the brackets).

     [Name of the Licensed Material] (the "Licensed Material")
     Copyright (C) [year] by [name of copyright owner] (the "Licensor")
     is licensed under the Esoteric Foundation Public License 1.0.10
     (the "Public License").

     You may not use this Licensed Material except in compliance with
     the Public License. You may obtain a copy of the Public License at
     https://www.github.com/EsotericFoundation/license.

=======================================================================

The Esoteric Foundation is not a party to its Public License.
Notwithstanding, the Esoteric Foundation may elect to apply its Public
License to material it publishes and in those instances will be
considered the "Licensor". The text of the Esoteric Foundation Public
License is licensed under the Esoteric Foundation Public License.

The Esoteric Foundation may be contacted at
https://www.github.com/EsotericFoundation.
